# personalized-cancer-diagnosis
Once sequenced, a cancer tumor can have thousands of genetic mutations. But the challenge is distinguishing the mutations that contribute to tumor growth (drivers) from the neutral mutations (passengers). Currently, this interpretation of genetic mutations is being done manually. This is a very time-consuming task where a clinical pathologist has to manually review and classify every single genetic mutation based on evidence from text-based clinical literature. This dataset is provided by Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC) through kaggle competition. Using modern machine learning techniques I tried to build a model that can classify the particular genetic mutation based on text-based clinical literature. This would come under category natural language processing as the most important feature in this dataset is clinical literature. I used bag of words and term frequency-inverse document frequency(tf-idf) vectorizers for building vectors of text. Since this is related to medical field interpretation is the most important thing we must care about because the clinical pathologist must know why our model is classifying mutation to a particular class. So only machine learning algorithms in which interpretation is possible like Naive Bayes, Logistic Regression, Linear SVM can be used. This notebook also contains modeling with random forests, stacking classifier and majority voting classifier just for reference purpose. At last, it is observed that the model built using logistic regression is the best model among all models.
